i was talking to j.j mccullough the
other day
and um he's a conservative political
youtuber here
and something i said in passing there's
a lot of truth to it is that some of
these questions
about democracy
you can kind of sharpen your teeth for
biting into the subject by
really studying really working on really
examining really working with
and utterly non-democratic society
if you don't have that contrast if you
don't really have the lived experience
of what democracy is not perhaps you
suffer all your life
with a little bit of excess vagueness
when thinking
about precisely what democracy is how it
works and what the advantages are
you it's not that you learn this by
examining the disadvantages of a
non-democratic society
but it wets your appetite it sharpens
your claws what can i tell you
i used to live in a uh tropical paradise
called the lao people's democratic
republic
commonly known as laos
contrary to the name there is absolutely
nothing democratic
about laos um
there was a story i heard and i only was
able to hear it because it was told to
me by someone who was a direct witness
a witness to and participant in these
events this absolutely never would have
appeared in the newspapers there
or on the radio to discuss this would be
strictly forbidden
it was a school teacher got all our kids
organized
for earth day depending where you've
lived it's it's
possible you've never even heard of
earth day earth day is one of these
phony
united nations promoted did you
celebrate earth day
in detroit really okay melissa melissa
knows earth day so
hey but it's it's the day when
everyone's supposed to care about the
environment a little bit extra
and the kids for their school project
made up
uh different big signs on um
bristol board we'd say placards right so
some kind of cardboard
backing with different slogans about
saving the planet
saving the environment saving the whales
and helping the dolphins
whatever was that in my each kid i had
to do a little bit of research and make
a sign
and then they marched together from
the school to the nearest buddhist
temple
it's not a very long walk and i imagine
one of the reasons for this was just
that the buddhist temple
had a kind of yard where they could
assemble and do this exercise
largely meaningless um you know
educational endeavor
wasn't thought of as political wasn't
thought of
as a protest by the teacher or by the
students themselves well guess what
the police reacted immediately in the
time
it took these kids to walk a few city
blocks
from the school to the buddhist temple
the communist party left into action
they were all arrested they were all
taken to the police station
every single placard every single school
project
on bristol board that we held up was
photographed
documented translated because most of
them were in english
i think there was some lotion but this
is mostly an english language exercise
every single student's name and
telephone number was written down their
parents were got in contact with their
id
cards were taken right
if you think the way to influence
politics in the people's
democratic republic of laos
is by having a street protest is by
having a street demonstration
you are sorely mistaken in telling this
bizarre anecdote
one point is to say to you that if i
as a white western foreigner had got it
into my mind
the way for me to influence government
policy
was to to motivate a bunch of friends
and strangers
to hold up placards and march in the
street chanting
right all of us would have gone to jail
and we would have gone to jail for
nothing it would have accomplished
nothing now you know what i did when i
was almost i did
influence loud government policy
unfortunately i did
influence loud government policy on the
environment i wrote an article
that was published in both thai
and english not lotion but everyone
in the lao educated elite can read tai
and i know that that article got read
by basically each and every person in
the lao government
leadership at the elite level it's a
small country word gets all right it's a
small country
and everyone who controls the country
lives in one small town in vienna's i'm
six degrees of separation these people
and i didn't publish it in laos i
published it in thailand
in both english and thai and that
article if you go back and read it today
i don't think you would get the
impression that i was pro-communist i
don't think you'd get the impression
that i was in favor
of what the lao communist party is doing
in terms their record on the environment
or specifically deforestation that was
really the big deal there was cutting
them for us
okay but that article was very carefully
written
to say look this country
is led by poverty-stricken ignorant
people
who don't know any better and guess
whose advice they're taking
they're taking the advice of the united
nations and of a small number of donor
countries
like france germany and the united
states america
and those white western powers
are giving them terrible advice and
that's why the forest has been cut down
this country is being irreparably harmed
right once the forest is cut down
there's nothing else here folks once
once that forest is cut down
there there is no tourist attraction in
house you know that once the forest is
cut down and the top soil
goes away this is going to be a desolate
poverty-stricken country with nothing
left to sell
and it's you know it doesn't come back
it's not going to regenerate once the
forest is
is clear cut once the jungle is gone
once the biodiversity is lost
this country is a poverty stricken
parking lot
nobody wants to pay to park okay it's
going to be empty
in a sense the people of laos can't
imagine i didn't say
i didn't say it's not your fault the
government was right
that's not what i said right but it says
some interesting things it's
it says for example the problem
is not illegal logging
whatever the government decides to do
is the law
i was speaking to the people in power i
was speaking them a way they would
understand
and it wasn't confronting them
needlessly but that's saying
i know the problem isn't illegal logging
i know the problem is legal log i know
the problem is you i know the problem is
members of the communist party and their
families doing the log gates you guys
directly
profiting from it right and i was asking
the question whose advice are you
following
okay that was a kind of protest that was
a kind of lobbying that was a kind of
political activism and i didn't go to
jail and i would say
i had influence vastly
out of proportion to my power what i
i worked a job that paid less than the
minimum wage i had a bachelor's degree
in political science
new year's day okay i made a difference
that i never
could have made by holding up a placard
by chanting by singing songs in the
streets through the types of
activism that continue to be glorified
in the american mindset
so guys this is a live stream it's not a
pre-recorded video i'm happy to see you
all here in the audience
uh frida asks did the donations come
with exhortations to laos to be more
democratic
so it's a strangely worded question but
you're actually getting at a very
interesting point here
all right from the start of this humble
video
and i've been talking about this on
youtube for maybe seven years
at least six years now right okay i was
talking
about the ways in which lobbying or
activism
can have positive outcomes but there's
another question that frida is getting
what if the real point of activism
is to get donations for the activist
right and if that is the point
maybe going to jail is the best thing
you can do
maybe a completely counterproductive
stunt that accomplishes nothing
but puts you in jail makes you look like
a victim gets you into the newspaper
headlines
oh yeah well you can imagine if i had
done oh well-intentioned
uh left-wing liberal environmentalist
vegan
buddhist scholar from toronto
thrown in prison in laos for protesting
against logging
or let's say it's something protesting
because he's trying to save the last of
these this endangered species i could
now name
several endangered species that were
disappearing allows the time
oh oh okay so if it's about donations
right and where's the fundraising
happening maybe the donation maybe it's
back in toronto
maybe i have a friend from college
who is a journalist at the toronto star
and i'm directly emailing that journal
saying hey
make sure this gets into the newspapers
in canada i'm a canadian from toronto
and i'm here being put in prison because
i dared to challenge the government
about logging but
oh so now a whole different sort of
strategic
mentality emerges if what we're talking
about is not democracy
if what we're talking about is money
oh we have some people in the audience
who know what's up
so natasha has just written that is so
true
exclamation point rachel ziegler from
dxe
is a perfect example dxe is an
abbreviation of direct
action everywhere she got she got
veneers
and hasn't worked a full-time job since
moving to california
so to my knowledge and this is based on
interviews rachel has done
uh she was a waitress and she
now is has her rent and so on or cost of
living paid for
by direct action everywhere so direct
action everywhere they get
more than one million dollars in
donations from the most recent
debt i've seen him maybe closer to 2
million donations per annum
so year after year it's more than a
million dollars i think 1.8 million
dollars their votes as the most recent
data i've seen
and out of that money they can indeed
pay for many people
like rachel to shall we say live off the
land live off the generosity of the
terms so yeah i mean this is one of
those things it's
it's shallow and it's deep at the same
time
so i've been talking to this other
youtuber
uh cranky vegan right so
i am not going to disclose the details
of what we talked about or what he said
it just seems to be inappropriate
however i also think it would be kind of
silly or counterproductive
to pretend that he and i don't talk at
all like we don't know each other or
something you know i mean
so there's a discourse going on with
this all right
what i find most troubling and this
happens throughout
democracy this happens on the left this
happens on the right this happens in the
center
it is not just a vegan issue this is a
profound problem with democracy across
the board is that people
fictionalize history and then stand
around
pompously and self-righteously demanding
why haven't you learned
the lessons of history right so they
create a fiction
that street protests ended the vietnam
war
that people holding a little sign and
standing in the streets saying
that's what ended the vietnam war oh
yeah
what ended the war in iraq what ended
the war in afghanistan
oh i'm sorry it's 2021 and those wars
haven't ended yet what ended the war
in palestine between israel and
palestine yes
is it a lack oh is it a lack of street
protest was that the problem
did people not stand in the street
holding a sign
enough did they not was it not was it
not enough pamphlets
well well we have this scientific
evidence
right cranky vegan uh the youtuber also
direct action everywhere also extinction
rebellion
all kinds of oh oh there's scientific
proof that these methods work
uh-huh the
largest street protest in the history of
planet earth
was in the year 2003
we all lived through it in the year 2003
anti-war protests opposed to the
americans
invading and bombing iraq
you got scientific proof that that works
huh in 2003
you set the guinness world record
there were marches in europe their march
of the united states
there were marches around the world
against that
war in the year 2003 here we are in 2021
and the war isn't over yet
all right people fictionalize history
they manufacture false facts
to make it seem that the theory
is effective in practice and this theory
is not
falsifiable this theory of
political progress the pursuit of social
change
through through protest and more
specifically
through so-called disruption right
that's what direct action ever support
and that is also what
cranky vegan supports okay um
wayne syong when he launched direct
action everywhere
um what he promised was that they were
going to be different
from every other activist movement in
the history of
animal rights and veganism because they
were going to use
methods that had been proven to be
effective
by social science research i'm
sorry but this is exactly the same thing
i hear
from cranky vegan still to this day so
he just made a video
uh yesterday of the day before yesterday
in which he says just after the
eight-minute mark and he says he says
it's kind of the whole time he said it
in the video the week before also he's a
guy does one video a week
so it's it's not just me saying this
it's been proven in one scientific study
after another
and you know he doesn't actually read
the scientific studies he doesn't
actually quote them
he doesn't actually examine the examples
and question
to what extent these do or do not
support his case
oh yeah i mean just look at the arab
spring
so we're now in 2021 all right when
wayne siong came out with that argument
this is a proven scientific effect it's
scientifically proven
that this form of disruption this form
of peaceful nonviolent action that this
works
they pointed to the arab spring as a
great success story
the era of the spring was a disaster and
it was a disaster most of all
for the people who were part of the
protests themselves
it ruined their lives they died they
went to prison
okay now i i already mentioned i am not
going to
disclose anything that cranky vegan has
ever said to me privately all right
however i'm going to talk about some
things that he said publicly
because he's made a lot of youtube
videos himself and most of what i know
about the guy
frankly everything i know about the guy
is from seeing interviews he gave to
other youtube channels it's not from
private discussions yet with me so this
is stuff that's on the internet
and i would suspect he's also done
interviews with uh podcasts
and some of those have been seen by very
few people one of the one of the
infusion i saw
i think it had 50 views or less i
remember asking us
is this a secret interview because this
has so few views like if you promoted
this on your own channel more people
would hear it but
you know what's the deal with this okay
cranky vegan's claim to fame is that he
went to jail
okay so he knows how the world really
works he knows what's really effective
in political activism because he went to
jail
for his convictions now there is an
emotional
irrational sense in which we all know
where he's coming from
and we all feel oh oh if you care about
this enough
if you're committed about this enough
that you know you're willing to go to
prison for it
suddenly everyone takes you more
seriously now i would point out that
this is emotional and irrational
and wrong okay what did he go to jail
for
every single time i've heard
him discuss this or i've seen it in
writing it's a transcript of an
interview he gave
okay he lies in the same way that wayne
syong
from direct action everywhere lies about
gandhi
yeah i mean mohandas gandhi the leader
from india in the same way that wayne
stone lies
about protests against the vietnam war
and protests against the iraq war
and the arab spring in the same way that
each
and every positive example given by
activists who preach or practice
disruption
is a lie cranky vegan
in discussing his own autobiography is
also lion he's manufacturing a
positive example to support his form his
methodology
his approach to activism whereas if you
actually examine the case if you
actually look at it
it's a negative example it's a counter
example it's an example that proves
my point not his point and part of my
point is
don't go to jail all you lovely people
in the audience right now do not
go to jail you want to go to jail for
five years you want to be checking in
you know they do this thing where after
you've served your time you have to keep
checking in
where they check that you're employed
and you're yeah you've got some kind of
probation officer or somebody checking
up on you make sure you don't have any
illegal weapons make sure you're not
uh using drugs and so on where you
remain under state control
for a long time afterwards don't go to
jail okay
if we're gonna have a discussion about
how to bring democracy to laos
how to bring democracy to cambodia how
to bring democracy to hong kong
how to bring democracy to canada how to
bring democracy to the united states
okay
any methodology that begins by taking
your best and brightest and hardest
working people and putting them in jail
is a methodology i find fault with
okay that does not seem like a terribly
effective
methodology to me all right the movement
he was a part of
is referred to as stop huntingdon
animal cruelty s-h-a-c
some people refer to as shaq all right
i used to live in cambridge england i
met
and spoke to people on both sides of
that debate
on both sides of that movement while i
was in england
before i left to live in laos and
cambodia
and do all those exciting things back
when i lived in toronto canada
oh this has been 1998 1999
i read the animal rights extremist
publications of the day i read
um the oxford green anarchist i've
mentioned this before
and they covered that case in my new
detail and i think
the senior editor and founder of that
publication he literally went to prison
for that too
he definitely went to court i think
sorry so i i think i think he was never
sentenced but he was in court and in and
out of you know
temporary holding cells and so on but i
think in the end he was he was acquitted
so i'm sorry it's not that he went to
jail but he was in and out of court for
a long time
for that case so he was passionately and
directly involved and other people were
writing out
so i got to read this my new coverage of
what went on with shac
and how the cookie crumbled on that so
there was a case it partly took place in
england it probably took place in the
united states
all right every single
interview every single statement i have
seen
from crankyvegan he makes the claim that
they shut down
huntington animal labs huntington
vivisection laboratories the
laboratories in england
where these experiments were performed
animals and that they
somehow turned like the public
like public will like democratic will
against
this wealthy corporation that's based
there that
is a lie on top of a lie on top of a lie
and
you can debunk it if you just look up
huntington life sciences
on wikipedia and read about what
happened that company
that is one of the most successful
companies in cambridge england
sorry it's not in the city in the
greater cambridge area it's one of the
most successful companies in all the
united kingdom
they went from strength to straight they
were fantastically successful during
this time
and they were powerfully connected to
cambridge
university now that's not their only
client
but they have many many clients at
cambridge people doing
legitimate leading-edge brilliant
science
and whenever they were challenged by
these animal rights activists they were
able to call those people in they would
appear in newspaper articles i remember
once they did a pro-vivisection protest
i'm not kidding you
in the history of the world that might
be the only one in cambridge england
hunted in life sciences well it wasn't
the company but one of their supporters
organized and all these scientists came
out and they said this is a good company
what they do is crucially important to
our research and they were able to name
off
all these legitimate scientific research
projects at cambridge and scientists
came forward and talked about their
experience
and they said yeah i'm researching the
cure to this disease
and we paid them to do this research and
this is the reality and these are the
guidelines about torturing animals to
death that they have to follow
and there was a huge groundswell of
democratic public
support for entertaining life sciences
it has since changed its name
sorry that was part of it forget if they
were purchased by a larger company they
had a merger or something
but they did have a rebranding they
changed it but that same facility that
same company
it is and so you just look at how many
thousand people they employ
they were a huge employer they're a huge
success story that is partly because
they have a proven track record of doing
research yes for
corporations but uh universities like
cambridge and oxford which are not that
far apart by the way cambridge i took
the bus between cambridge and oxford a
few times
um cambridge is not really one
university it's many small universities
in a cluster
so these different departments and labs
and agencies in cambridge each one of
which
contracts with uh this laboratory
for animal research for whatever kind of
things they're doing
there was a huge amount of public sports
they were a huge success it is not
true that cranky vegan or anyone who was
part of the shac
movement accomplished something great or
permanent
through their protest what they
accomplished was putting themselves
in jail okay they did not cut it into
they did not disrupt
that company in any way they disrupted
their own lives
i'm gonna pause and and look at the uh
uh okay
so we have an interesting error in the
audience so
ddp all right ddp you
got it wrong all right i don't know er
ddp
no it's so you have said that it's
mahatma gandhi well you have neither
studied sanskrit
nor pali old boy mahatma is not a name
maha atma it's a title
okay mohandas gandhi is his name
mahatma is a title okay you think you
what you thought i mispronounced mahatma
please please who do you think you're
dealing with here aren't i always
talking about uh
sanskrit and pali etymology come on
sanskrit and prac right here come on
what kind of youtube channel do you
think this is um but no i mean it's it's
a big deal the way in which
figures like gandhi are made into
mythological representations
that are convenient for the particular
political agenda
uh people are driving on the 21st
century and it totally represents who
they really were and what really
happened
we have a profound question here do you
shave your head
um yeah i have haven't i
yeah that was my popular demand too at
that time bunch of people
um there were some questions about that
there were some questions about
masculinity and and shaving one's head
and what what attitude once you take
towards
that's a couple years ago now but yeah
that's right so if you search my if you
search my youtube channel
uh you know um
okay so sam says on patreon
uh cranky because 334 patrons receiving
736 dollars per month and he then says
jail tickets
okay so this is a digression but he does
not actually use that money for himself
interestingly or not what he does on
patreon is he collects donations
and then he donates each month all of
those donations to
an animal sanctuary or some animal
rights charity and i believe the patrons
vote on it
i don't know what extent is done
randomly or democratic but he has some
kind of discussion with people he says
okay
so out of these four who do you want to
donate it to so it's a very peculiar
exercise but there is there is a lot of
support for him and look we are the last
of the white elephants here people
i mean there are very very few talented
hard-working people
talking about being in politics in 2021
and i appreciate that he's doing the
work he does
and i'm not surprised people want to
donate money to them now you know
meanwhile
you've just heard me point out earthling
ad earns much more than 100
000 a year earthling ed just through
patreon alone
it's more than one hundred thousand
dollars a year and this is not the only
source of income
so there are people making a lot of
money of the vegan movement but to my
knowledge
uh cranky vegas is not one of them now
that being said
do i know what his day job is no he
never mentions it
something i said to him in our
discussion i said look i don't know
anything about your intellectual
background
i don't know what books he reads i don't
know what books he's ever read
i don't know what he studied in
university like ever like i don't know
what he studied just in the last five
years you know i
don't have any sense of his intellectual
background or interest you know on my
channel
over time but even in this one video you
get some sense okay this is a guy who's
a backer and
studying buddhist philosophy this is a
guy who has a background in studying
ancient greek and you know by the way
i did not learn ancient greek let me
sorry ancient greek sources in english
translation
you know you you quickly or slowly start
to realize what it is i'm reading
when i'm not physically holding up the
books on camera i'm telling you about
what i mean
you get a sense of the intellectual
background what isn't researching and
who i am
you don't get that with cranky vegan and
you know fair enough
everyone's playing the game by different
rules but when you have this sort of
question you know i'll come back to it
after dumb reading and respond to your
comments
uh you know we i have a conflict between
i can say you know a real question of
strategy tactics morality i mean there
are matters of principle here as well as
matters of
pragmatics right um
i'm i'm talking to someone where in
every important way they're just totally
unknown to me because i don't know this
is because he doesn't share that stuff
he doesn't give you some sense
of who he is uh you know ethically
intellectually philosophically or even
politically i've never heard him talk
about
bernie sanders or joe biden or you know
or alexander ocasio-cortez or donald
trump
and how he feels about those things you
know so you you really don't get that
no why is that i would say it's because
he comes out of a
violent background you know i'm not
saying he's currently violent
but he came out of a more extreme form
of animal rights activism
i have seen him endorsing and approving
of
illegal and violent methods of protest
that i do not
approve of on my channel that i
partially criticize and tell people not
to do
on my channel so that may give you a
reason maybe even if you're not aware of
it like
maybe you don't consciously think i'm
gonna come on
camera and be evasive about my
background intellectually personally
professionally
maybe it's just you're aware that you're
playing with fire you're doing something
dangerous that he's endorsing
terrorism ultimately he's enforcing
crimes against property and so on and so
forth
that he is he is definitely he is
constantly endorsing
uh breaking into laboratories and
breaking into farms and breaking the
slaughter houses and and
stealing the animals out of them this
kind of disruption
yeah yeah yeah yeah so-called
quote-unquote open rescue and this kind
of thing
which again puts him in the same camp
with wayne siong and wayne steen has had
many many
criminal charges posed against him to my
knowledge he's never been convicted that
one way or another
uh he gets that he gets out of jail so
to speak to one way or another he's
acquitted or that the charges are
dropped
but nevertheless there are there are
people who keep breaking the law this
way and direct action everywhere in that
camp
so if you guys are watching my my
channel from time i'm not in that camp
you know there are many reasons for that
one is democracy
but another is talent is scarce don't
spend five years in a cage
like you know you're wasting the
opportunities that we have in a
democracy and that people don't have in
laos and don't have in cambodia
and don't have in hong kong and don't
have in myanmar
hey hey guys if you believe in
disruption if you believe in direct
action if you believe in these protests
the war in iraq should have ended in
and little myanmar should have you know
open and free and fair elections
do you do you think let me ask you this
honestly okay so this is a series of
questions that answer themselves here
guys
do you think that veganism will ever be
able to organize
a protest as disruptive
as what the people of myanmar just
organized in 2021
in in all the months of 2021 the
pro-democracy movement in myanmar
versus the vegan movement in california
who has more numbers
who has more passion who is going to
have more outcomes who can point to
so if this works if this method works it
should work
10 000 times better for those disruptive
protesters in myanmar
then it is working for so-called
disruptive protesters in the name of
veganism in the name of ecology
so on and so forth parallel question for
you
do you think that vegans in the united
states of america do you even think that
vegans in the state of california will
ever have the numbers
will ever have the money will ever have
the organization
or will ever have the level of passion
behind them as the anti-abortion
protesters
if you believe that disruptive activism
is effective if you believe this kind of
activism is effective
then the anti-abortion movement in the
last 50 years
should have been 10 000 times more
effective
than vegan activism today or veganism
that vegan activism ever
has been in the past or ever could be in
the future
veganism as a movement will never
have the advantages of the burmese
pro-democracy movement of the
pro-democracy movement in myanmar
or of the pro-democracy movement in hong
kong in case you've been sleeping
through the news for the past two years
right never
we'll never have those numbers we'll
never have that much money we'll never
have that much passion we'll never have
that much organization
never not today not tomorrow not in the
year 2050
never so if this methodology can't
work for them why do you think it can
work for us we will never
have the level of backing the level of
interest the level of support
that the anti-abortion
lobby has the anti-abortion just compare
institution by institution
the anti-abortion lobby has it all okay
they have high paid expensive lawyers
in washington dc they have foundations
of that kind they have complete lunatics
they have rednecks who are ready to kill
and die they have like
the most extreme violent protesters
imaginable right
they have the full spectrum they've been
causing disruption
constantly and they have no shame right
they think they're on a mission from god
they'll show up they will disrupt all
five points of disruption
they will pay for air time i don't know
if you've seen this they will pay for
advertisements on tv
about abortion right they will pay for
posters they will pay for
you know like professional advertising
huge billboards right sure right they'll
do that
right they will also show up at the
abortion clinic
they will show up at congress they will
show up at the state legislature at city
hall okay
this the level of success represented
by this failed movement is so many
levels higher than
anything vegans ever have accomplished
ever would
could or will accomplish but it has
failed
and you know what the chart to look up
is i've posted on youtube before so you
can go watch my old video about this if
you want to see the actual chart
number of abortions per capita
per annum in the united states of
america okay
because ultimately just like eating meat
just like buying meat
whether or not people have abortions is
a personal choice all right
even if it's illegal in your state you
can choose to go to another state you
can choose to go to
canada or mexico or europe you know most
of the time you cross state lines
from an anti-abortion state to a
pro-abortion state if you want to
ultimately it is a matter of personal
choice
and the number of abortions in the
united states of america
per person per year has not declined
on the contrary i talked about this
before where it has declined
the cause had nothing to do with all of
this activism
instead the cause had to do with
multiculturalism that you have
huge numbers of people moving united
states of america who are
latin american you know central american
eastern european chinese
japanese they come from other cultures
that are more opposed to abortion
on that personal level than white
anglican americans are than white
protestant americans are they have a
much less relaxed attitude towards that
i won't die stupid thing with that a lot
of people don't realize that about
chinese culture you may know
say catholics catholics from central
america latin america that may be the
stereotype oh yeah those people will
refuse to get abortions unless they
absolutely have to have one
guess what the chinese also are really
setting this portion you have an
increasingly multicultural
okay so i'm asking i'm asking
seriously okay as a matter of strategy
as a matter of tactics as a matter of
morality as a matter
of principle as a matter of practice why
why would vegans imitate what is
already a failed paradigm
used by anti-abortion protesters and
used in hong kong
in myanmar in opposing the vietnam war
in opposing the war in iraq
in myriad examples so i'll just say
again i'm not going to
read out any of this stuff we said but
at one point cranky vegan was asking me
to clarify
what my position was totally appropriate
i have no i have no complaints about the
way i was contacting this
debate or discussion right i said no no
i think you've really misunderstood what
i'm saying
i'm not saying this is 50 50. i'm not
saying it's 60 40.
like i'm not saying that your method and
direct action everywhere's method that
this protest is searching with i'm not
saying it works
half of the time and not saying it works
of the time i'm saying it works zero
percent of the time i am actually making
the claim that this is a
bad method like it's not
not it's not about relative
effectiveness this is a
total nihilistic rejection of
exactly the kind of politics you have
dedicated your life towards and you are
still dedicating your life
on youtube to propounding and
encouraging other do it's not
it's not that i think it's 10 less
effective
than something else right or 50 percent
i am saying this is zero effective and
you know what the effect is it puts
people like you in jail
it ruins your life right people's lives
really do get ruined by this form of
political activism
all right so guys i'm going back to
looking at the comments
okay so natasha says it's all ego with
social activism
just functioning as a quasi-religion
they're about
self-expression and group affiliation
period narcissist
okay look so here i'm going to argue
against you know my uh
my my position for a moment so if you
were to ask me you didn't ask me but if
you were to ask me
what positive do i see in this type of
organization
whether that be direct action everywhere
or anonymous for the voiceless
or even peta people for the ethical
dream of animals and let's let's be
clear
uh wayne chiong when he found a direct
action editor said that he was going to
do something bold and new and different
than what anyone had done before because
his methods were based on social science
research they were proven to be
effective
by science as a matter of science and
cranky vegan on his youtube channel he's
still saying this to this day
he's still saying oh scientific
scientific facts can't can't argue
it's not me saying this is not my
opinion
the reality is all that wayne seong has
done is reinvented
exactly the same methods used by peta by
people with ethical treatment panels
petta 40 years ago took
blood and had a woman in a bikini
pouring blood on herself
wayne seong's direct action everywhere
in 2020 2001 a woman in a bikini pouring
blood on herself
they're the same methods everything they
said they were against when they
they have gone on to do exactly that so
this is one uh
overall problem okay but if i were to
argue against that position
replying to this comment from natasha
here um
you know people need friends and
these protests i don't think they work
as protests i don't think they
are protests really you know i don't
think they have their stated objectives
but they do work as a kind of rally they
do work as a kind of conference they do
work as a kind of support group
where you can meet like-minded people
that's the most common thing a shout out
to henia mania
was barely alive in 2021 she's just
barely clinging to her sanity and her
heartbeat
um but back in the day i remember she
just said honestly
she used to go to vegan protests to get
laid she'd go to meet her next boyfriend
or her next girlfriend
you know she was there now you know so
when you say this it's functioning as a
quasi religion
people go to church to get laid people
go to church to find the person they're
gonna marry to find someone like you
know they do
people go to synagogue to get late i
don't know if people go to buddhist
temple to get laid
good luck with that but look you know um
[Music]
so i have some sympathy for the devil
there like if you say this is a quasi
religion for people
well a lot of people need religion you
know a lot of people need those sources
of community and friendship
and you may live a life where you are
the only vegan you know
and then when you go to an activist
event like that you you get to meet
some like-minded people uh that is the
most positive and the most flattering
thing i can say about it
now if any of you try it
you're gonna figure out that guys like
me and guys like cranky vegan were
really
scarce we're really rare we're really
precious you're gonna go to these
events and meet the people there and go
whoa
talent is scarce there are a lot of
people at this protest who
couldn't sit in a microphone and give
any kind of coherent account about what
it is we're trying to accomplish here in
this movement
so there are a lot of frighteningly
stupid people that you're gonna make
yeah and frighteningly immoral people
too you're gonna be terrible people
going to protest so it's not all it's
not all fun and games
but it is partly funny games there's
there's some possibility
to uh you know there's some possibility
to really meet like-minded people and
start something
um
yeah so we have a complaint here about
planned parenthood
yes the history of planned parenthood
also if you look into their founder
you know one of the sorry so i'll finish
that sentence
the history of that organization
including the actual life
and writings of the founder for example
what she wrote to adolf hitler
her involvement with eugenics uh yeah
there are reasons to raise questions
about planned parenthood
i made several videos talking about
planned parenthood in relation to
gender reassignment surgery and there
are important questions to be asked
there
but for americans one of the most
important questions of all is just
why is this a private
business and i say business rather than
charity because this is currently being
debated in the senate they actually
receive government funding
from the small business administration
well that means you're a business
and it was disqualified nobody knows how
the story ends yet but it was challenged
because part of the claim was well they
don't count as a small business they're
a big business they have more than 10
000 employees
so they they shouldn't have quote this
but what why would this not be a uh
a government function you know this is
this is part of the part of the
fundamental question
you know if you believe that people
should have access to abortions you know
why would they get it through a charity
or private company or a business
if access to abortion is not going to be
based
on your wealth it's not based on your
ability to pay but it's something open
to everyone equally that's something
that perhaps
poorer people and drug addicts need
especially like people who really don't
have money
and may not even have all their identity
cards you know i mean you can have
someone who's a homeless drug addict
they don't really have the paperwork
even access conventional government
services
if you're going to make abortions
available for the people who need it the
most
obviously that's going to be a
government you know responsibility
fill this with you when we talk about
some things in education and so on it's
like
there's a point of diminishing returns
like look you can't expect the church to
do this anyways
it's a digression but i'm interested in
this person uh
this time um frida comments that she
remembers reading about the jehovah's
witnesses failed methods to recruit
believers
uh by creating a sense of belonging with
the members
yeah um so i was i was involved with
cult studies for quite a while and if
you google that you'll definitely at
least get some written articles i did
related to cult studies um maybe just a
couple of youtube videos touch on that
in passing that's an area of research
i'm i've i've
really appreciated and benefited from my
whole life and uh
maybe six months ago i was talking to a
professor again about the possibility am
i getting a phd
in that area in in cult studies um
cult studies the study of what cults do
and what works and what doesn't what's
what's a disaster with them
it's instructive also in this way i mean
i said at the beginning of this video
when you study a completely
non-democratic society
it gives you some insight into how
democracies work also
um there's there's a lot for us to learn
from what cults are doing wrong
uh put it that way but yeah very few
people evaluate
what it is that cults are doing that's
effective how it is they how does that
work
um so yeah i did just within this last
year part
sorry partly shout out to my book this
is actually discussed in a couple
chapters of no more manifestos
and i did quite a bit of research on a
few different cult groups
there's several things in the book that
are discussed very briefly but i did a
significant amount of research on
and i talked to a few professors
connected to uh some of these strange
cults
uh for that for that reason but you know
um i would just say so someone's just
encouraging me saying i should make
videos on called psychology well i have
so natasha i have done formal research
and writing about that
and it's something so when i first
started the channel this channel was
called a balacial
my main channel i assumed i was going to
be doing dialogues with atheist
channels with anti-religion activists
and i wanted to talk about buddhism and
cult like
aspects of buddhism and so on there was
a lot i wanted to deal with but sure
also just completely non-buddhist crazy
cults there's all kinds of stuff i'd
love to do
but um yeah i mean
at the moment that's not what i'm doing
with my time energy and if i return to
full-time studies
at the university here then you know um
you know that's that's very unlikely to
uh to to
significant part of the content of the
channel also i mean by the way you can
look at
you can look at what i'm reading because
you're doing weekly book review videos
and you can look at what i'm planning to
read so you know
look i'm just being honest with you i
would love to do more research on that i
would love to do more videos on that
one of the reasons why that didn't
happen on the channel was that nobody
would cooperate with me
and if you look at my interactions with
atheist youtubers
so yeah matt dillahunty is being
mentioned you mentioned i think i got an
email back from him at one point and
they got one
reply from that but know for years and
years i reached out to
uh atheist youtubers anti-religion
youtube and podcasts
sorry it's not all not all youtube some
of it podcasts other forms of activism
and it's very disappointing i mean i i
believe
i never once got anyone who would even
just talk to me
you know and
there are a lot of bad things to say um
you know there are a lot of bad things
to say about the reality of what uh
atheist activism
is uh it's certainly in 2021 and it's
come downhill a long way
since 2016. okay so some nice helpful
and largely irrelevant uh comments and
questions here but let's just let's just
wrap up the topic of this video
um
[Laughter]
[Music]
look you know um
politics is not entirely about right
and wrong politics is in large part
about
whether or not people care you know
and i think if you guys are listening to
the you know
message of this video as a whole even if
a few moments i'm kind of angry
and ranting of quotas and comics you can
tell i care
i mean i've been coming on youtube
talking about this for seven years
because i care and before youtube i was
already on the internet
because i care um
i remember there was a young woman uh i
knew her for something like three years
over the internet never met face to face
and
every time i was talking to her about
vegan activism and slaughterhouses
whatever
i was saying to her stay out of jail
don't do this
you know and she had rage
issues and yes you could see it in
stupid comments she made the internet
most people laughed at it because she
was a woman
too people were like oh she's just a
girl she does she doesn't actually mean
she's going to hurt somebody
yes she does because i knew her well
enough to know and i remember one of our
conversations i started that i said look
you know i see this stuff you're saying
on the internet i see other people think
it's a joke
but i know it's not like i know you i
don't know where that will but i know
you well enough to know what's going on
everybody you're
this is really what you're about you
know when you're going to get yourself
put in prison and this is you know
uh and you know and also this is wrong i
mean this is terrorism i mean
it's i think it's bad and evil and wrong
and counter-productive
okay i'll i'll continue with the editor
that young movement okay but look what
it says
there were protests in england about one
week ago now
and cranky vegan discussed them on his
youtube channel
all right and the main method used was
blocking the roads that allowed people
to access
certain slaughterhouses processing
centers distribution centers
i think it was actually the distribution
centers really not where the animals
were slaughtered i think after it was
packaged
when the meat was sent out to mcdonald's
restaurants okay
okay so this was in one sense
effective right like they blocked the
roads
and for a couple days mcdonald's supply
chain didn't work there wasn't enough me
now now really really what would be the
sign
that vegan activism is affected when you
look at the chart
of how many pounds of beef how many
pounds of chicken
how many pounds of pork how many pounds
of fish
every american is eating per capita per
year when you look at the chart it's an
easy chart to get you can get it right
now
united nations publishers of those
citizens but many many many many sources
in the internet you can get this
okay when you look at that chart the
numbers would be going down
right what would be the sign
the signal that anti-abortion activism
is working
when you look at the chart of number of
abortions per capita
that the number is going down right
anything else is failure
right and with something like veganism i
mean really this is a sense in which
veganism and abortion are
are similar or are comparable right
with veganism you would see incremental
progress on that chart it wouldn't just
be a binary
on off switch it's not like oh we used
to have slavery and now slavery is
abolished you would be seeing the
progress towards the goal
as you move closer closer same with
abortion right it's not like overnight
people would decide abortions are
immoral and it would disappear but
if their movement were successful you
would be seeing declining
abortion rates in the chart and maybe
you'd even see dips corresponding to
particular campaigns like well that was
the year
they did this disruption campaign i mean
it's again abortion activists do the
same stuff they
block access to the hospital they block
access to the abortion clinic
and then people can't get them like they
will physically obstruct we'll do this
kind of thing
um but the charts don't show progress
the charts don't show that we're winning
the
charts don't show anything anything uh
positive
uh you know in terms of the progress of
a veganism's movement whatsoever
okay all right this is this is real
we're gonna say
when you look at and you approve of
these protests by vegan activists in
england
where they they were accomplishing their
protest by blocking
roads having an economic effect
some people are morally opposed to
vaccines
how would you feel if they right now
exercise their opposition to vaccines by
blocking the roads
some people support hamas
a terrorist organization quite a lot of
people on the left wing
paradoxically support ms how would you
feel
if there were muslim fundamentalists or
muslim terrorist groups
and their form of activism is blocking
the roads blocking the roads
strategically
to shut down what their political
opponents want to do
how would you feel if they were
catholics
morally opposed to abortion who were
shutting down the roads
if you do not believe that in a
democratic society
this method of activism this method of
protest is permissible
for everyone then you believe it's
permissible for no one
okay and if you set the precedent that
you can get away with
this if this is okay for wayne seong and
direct action airport
if this is okay for vegans if this is
acceptable for us
then it's acceptable for the redneck
fascist
right-wing extremists then it's
acceptable for the muslim extremists
then it's acceptable for every other
fringe ideology
because in case you haven't figured it
out veganism
is a french ideology i will just repeat
we will never have the numbers we will
never have the level of public sport
we'll never have the level of
organization or money behind us
we'll never have the institutional
backing that already the anti-abortion
movement has
we are a tiny fringe movement compared
to the anti-abortion
i knew this young woman every time i
talked to her
the last several times i talked to her
you know
my message to her was i don't
want you to end up in prison don't do
this
i gotta change your way of thinking
about vegan activism
environmentalism you know animal rights
like
you know and you know even if she
doesn't end up in prison
right there is a real sense in what she
was driving herself crazy
she believed impossible things and she
lived her life
in a tense anxious awful
said sense of moral contradiction at all
times
right that's that's where the violence
is coming from and she told me about an
incident
where she was driving down the road in
her car
and she had some trivial
conflict with a guy on the sidewalk i
think it was about
parking and she stopped the car
got out of the car ran down the street
and punched him in the back of the head
as hard as she could she she left up and
punched his gun back you know so this is
someone who had
you know if you can go to jail for that
um
you could also kill someone i mean you
know
it's alright you don't know your own
strength and you don't know the other
person's weakness
right like you don't know what the
consequences are
you get to choose your actions you don't
get to choose other people's reactions
you don't get to choose the consequences
and yeah also that guy could have turned
around and punched her back
which she didn't apparently you know she
could she could have been very badly
hurt
directly in return you know this is
someone dealing with dealing with all
these things
so you know i kind of had my honor i was
talking to her
and again it's something i was dealing
with my agent a lot
you know i am not going to endorse
methods of activism that i both i think
they're
ineffective i think they're
counterproductive i think they're an
insult to democracy i think they're an
insult to your intelligence i think
they're a waste your time
right
and i don't want you to put yourself in
jail you know that story ends
she got pregnant and had a kid
that's the truth you know what all of
that [ __ ]
all of her commitment to vegan activism
just disappeared
because she got pregnant had a kid now
she had other priorities in life and
i don't really know what kind of a
mother she turned out to be we haven't
kept in touch since then
um i wish her the best but that was how
she stayed out of
prison and i remember she kept it up she
really believed she was running back to
me and saying oh no she would justify
that like oh no like burning down a
slaughterhouse like
firebomb attacks like real terrorist on
this bar never she really believed
you know uh she really believed this was
effective she really believed
this is the future all right guys you
know i got more to say
but i think i'm gonna put a pin in it
and call that uh
call that a video um
politics is only partly about
being right you know or being wrong
right
politics begins with and ends with
human beings you know all the world's
history
and all the world's riddles all the
world's truth and all the world's lies
have to fit into the span of one human
lifetime
you know you have to bring these things
down to a human scale
and stop thinking about the future of
your movement in terms of an
abstract truth that you have to serve
like the truth is that so many millions
of animals are dying every month
this is this great truth and this great
crime and now you
become beholden to it you know
now the truth is you're a human being
the truth is that you have to live
a whole and meaningful life and you
shouldn't put yourself in prison
for the sake of the abstract ideal of
democracy in hong kong
and you shouldn't put yourself in prison
for the abstract ideal of democracy and
myanmar
and you shouldn't put yourself in prison
for the abstract ideal of of a vegan
diet
and you know there are counter examples
that these people don't talk about
they talk about the end of the vietnam
war which they're completely ignorant of
they don't know why the vietnam war
ended when it did
now it did they talk about the protests
against the war in iraq
you know they talk about the arab spring
right
none of those protests changed the world
the way voltaire did when he wrote
candide
okay voltaire didn't really know
anything about slavery he didn't really
know anything about torture he didn't
really know anything about
war you know he didn't really have any
deep
issue but he was able to write a book
where he poured a lot of feeling into it
and he really gets it across to you
that he cares he gets across to you
that this is not fit for human beings
this life that's become normal in europe
and that time
people being tortured to death as
heretics in spain
and portugal slavery in the new world
all of these horrors and what's come to
be seen as normal and even honorable
in wars within europe he just poured
his heart out in this book and this very
poorly written book it's a terrible book
right he just poured his heart out and
wrote a book
and told you how he felt and he told you
how much he cared and it changed the
world
okay it changed the world in a way that
none
of these protests have and that none of
them
can and none of them ever will
in the year 2020 black lives matter
protesters they burned down a wendy's
they burned down a wendy's
chicken and meat restaurant you know i
do not approve
of burning down a restaurant in the name
of veganism
and i don't believe in it in the name of
ending police brutality
and it's not because i love wendy's
hamburgers or because i support
private enterprise or you know
if i believe that burning down every
wendy's restaurant in america would
actually
reform policing that would actually
provide a more moral
a more responsible a less violent police
force
of course i'd be willing to do it okay
how stupid do you have to be to think
that burning down a wendy's restaurant
is gonna
bring about police reform and it hasn't
happened yet this is now may 28th
2021 it didn't work guys
that protest movement it didn't get the
results it didn't get the outcomes
there hasn't been any reform there isn't
anything to show
the black people who were killed in
those protests
they've stayed dead they're dead forever
the buildings the whole city blocks that
were burnt down
the stores that were looted and
destroyed right
that damage is done and it hasn't been
repaired yet it hasn't been painted over
yet
right we have the negative consequences
we have no
positive outcomes to show for it
okay and the problem is we live in a
society
where the majority of people the
majority
left or right vegan or meat eater
pro-abortion
or anti-abortion the vast majority of
people
believe in violent disruptive
protest activism the vast majority of
people really
are stupid enough to think that burning
down
a wendy's restaurant in a riot
is the way to save the planet